March 22, 1939 - December 2, 2018

12/08/18

Well, I've got some good news and some bad news.  The good news is that my father is no longer suffering.

The bad news is, I inherited much of his sense of humor.  To those of you who are going back with me to Texas, my profound apologies. (My children especially). 

If asked what I remember most about my dad -- it would be that sense of humor.  The man was a master of "dad jokes" - more often than not, any punchline he delivered was immediately followed by a groan of some type, from one or all) of his children.  The man could take any turn of phrase, any situation -- and on the turn of dime, he'd come back with something witty right back (or what he thought was witty, anyway).  It was a gift. Or a curse, depending on if you were on the receiving end of it or not.  But it was always good-natured, never spiteful. Anytime he caught me "channeling" this power, he'd laugh at me and simply say "it's working". 

Speaking of which, I want to start off by offering you one of his favorite riddles.  One that he would repeat countless times to me growing up.

"A man had a dollar.  He bought a drum for 50 cents.  He bought a pair of drumsticks for a quarter.  Why did the man get thrown off the street car?"

First of all, I used to ask, what in the world is a streetcar?  Why is musical equipment so cheap?  What does one of these things have to do with the other?  He would just chuckle and repeat the riddle with no further explanation.  Used to drive me BONKERS.

I'll come back to this one later...

Another big part of growing up around my dad was his love of photography.  He LOVED taking pictures - so much so that I hard a hard time finding pictures of him to share today - he was always BEHIND the camera.  Back then, he'd use his old Nikon film camera and develop the film into slides (way before digital was a thing), and we'd occasionally break out the slide projector and he'd put up a screen.  We'd pop popcorn and go through countless carousels full of pictures - several times a year.  Many of them from the trips he would take to Wyoming, backpacking.  I was too young to go to most of those trips, so seeing the beauty of God's creation - mountains, flowers, landscape - it was magical.  In this, he taught me to appreciate the beauty in all things - from the tip of Gannett Peak to the smallest Indian Paintbrush or daisy on the ground.  He instilled in me a love for photography I carry with me to this day.

He loved bald eagles.  We always had tons of hanging pictures and figurines of bald eagles around the house.  Most of the time, I attributed this to his love of his country - which he instilled in his kids.  But the older I get, I think he liked bald eagles mainly because they were bald - just like him.

When us kids graduated high school, he took us each on a trip. I wanted to visit NYC and see shows on Broadway. I will cherish that trip for the rest of my life. Anytime I hear the music from those shows we saw, it brings a smile to my face.

I remember he was not too pleased with my initial choice of colleges and majors.  But he was still supportive of me, and he made sure to swing by Westerville to bring my absentee ballots, and money from time to time.   He knew I'd eventually come around and reapply to Miami University, where I got my Bachelor's.  During those years, I remember watching the struggle of paying for that education.  My parents both sacrificed so much to help us kids succeed.

One of his favorite Disney characters was Pumba, for all the reasons you'd expect from a burping gassy warthog.

The man was also full of stories.  I loved hearing of his days in the frigid cold of British Columbia where he served in the Air Force.  Or his hitchhiking stories, like the time he was picked up by a drunken Indian.  Once the guy pulled into the next bar, my dad had decided he'd be better off finding another ride.   And of course, the time he told he hitched a ride with the one and only Colonel Sanders.  Stories of him riding along on his dad's milk route - a completely foreign concept to me since the only time I'd ever been on a milk route was figuring out what grocery aisle to go to.  Or one of my favorites - the time when he and his friend Jack hitched a ride in a boxcar in Indiana and accidentally ended up in Bellfontaine, Ohio.  And how upset my grandparents were when they found out.

Especially in my later years, when I was the last child left in the house, I remember waking up every Christmas morning to the sounds of Handel's "Messiah" being played in the family room.  That one will hit especially hard here in a few weeks, as I have carried on that tradition in my own household, as I bake his mother's famous "Olie Yeast Rolls" to prepare for Christmas dinner, as I have every year since I moved to Texas.

There were hundreds of road trips to and from Columbus & Cincinnati when he would bring me along to help with the Masonic lodge computer systems, or the subsequent "male bonding experiences", as he called them, on the way home - which was essentially just running out of gas and coasting on fumes to the closest Circle K at 2 in the morning.  Going on camping trips in our big Prowler camper, following my older siblings around to band competitions.  Meals at Bill Knapp's.  Bob Evans.  Marrion's Pizza.  WHITE CASTLE.  Weekly Friday night trips to Grub Steak in downtown Dayton.   Or when driving home, he'd tell me we had to stop for a 'military secret' - which basically just meant we would stop and get Dunkin Donuts to eat for breakfast the next morning.  Weekends I was home from college or when I lived in Huber Heights, I cherished those morning meals at the Englewood McDonald's just spending time with him.  Really, meals anywhere.  I think we just liked to eat.

Around the end of March, early April every year, I remember the smell of coffee in the house - which meant one of three things - Grandma was staying with us, someone important was coming to dinner, or it was tax season.  Most of the time it was the latter.  April 15th, every year, we'd drive to downtown Dayton to the only post office open late enough to postmark all of those tax returns before they'd be considered to be filed late.  Not the best part of town either, mind you.  But it was another late night drive with Dad.

He taught me so much.  How to change the oil in a car (before God invented Jiffy Lube).  How to take good photos.  He introduced me to computers and how to fix them.  He helped me pass Algebra.  Accounting.  How to sing bass/harmonize with church hymns - he had such a low, resonant singing voice - helped inspire me to pursue various choirs throughout the years.  

The summer I got my learner's permit, he taught me how to drive in the Salem parking lot in a rental car (shhh don't tell Hertz) - and even more so, I cut my driving chops on the open roads out west on our trip to Wyoming. Somehow my dad and brother nicknamed me TAILHOOK on that trip - for some reason. Oh and(Darrin - next time, skip the chili at Little America - just saying).  For some reason, He left teaching me how to drive a stick to Mom -- Thanks, Mom - I know I scared you a few times with that!

For all that my dad taught me,  I still have no idea why that man got thrown from the streetcar, or why some things happened toward the end of his life leading up to the accident.  But maybe the answer - the lesson - that God has for many of us -- Is that Sometimes, things just are.  

There may be unearthly answers for many of our earthly questions.  But our God is a wonderful God and He is present in our lives.  So trust in Him.  That may be the most important lesson any father could teach his children.



I'd like to close with a few lines from Scripture. 

Psalm 68:1-5
God shall arise, his enemies shall be scattered;
    and those who hate him shall flee before him!
2 As smoke is driven away, so you shall drive them away;
    as wax melts before fire,
    so the wicked shall perish before God!
3 But the righteous shall be glad;
    they shall exult before God;
    they shall be jubilant with joy!

4 Sing to God, sing praises to his name;
    lift up a song to him who rides through the deserts;
his name is the Lord;
    exult before him!
5 Father of the fatherless and protector of widows
    is God in his holy habitation.


Thanks, Dad. 
