In Memoriam
Todd Burkett 
Born 7/26/1967 – Died 3/7/2026

I’ve been writing this in my head for 2 months, and now that I’m finally putting the words down, they seem to be failing me.  Todd was my brother.  But more than that, he was my first best friend, my sparring/wrestling buddy, and in some ways, my co-conspirator.  There’s no way to encapsulate almost 60 years of life into a few minutes, but I’ll try to hit some of the high points, at least from my perspective.
To me, the traits my brother had I will miss the most are his sense of humor, his strong sense of bravado and fierce loyalty and love of the outdoors. He exemplified these throughout his life in many ways.
I remember when we were younger, he loved to beat the snot out of me; not out of spite, but just having fun.  We’d wrestle in the family room pretty much daily.  We watched a lot of movies together.  We were both fans of Star Wars; so much so I’m pretty sure I ended up stealing and/or destroying his original action figures.  Even into adulthood, he’d send me all the Star Wars memes and videos he could find online.
He was very much into the military, guns and cars.  We loved watching war films together, and I loved riding shotgun in his Monte Carlo SS, T Tops down, driving to Flying Pizza, listening to Phil Collins.  That is until he had to sell it.  Though I’m sure his position changed as he got older, I still remember him joking once, “if it comes down between the girl or the car…. go with the car!”
Todd took me hunting on numerous occasions and even helped me buy my first shotgun.  He took me to my hunter’s education classes until I got my license.  He didn’t have to do that – my dad could have easily gone with me.  But Todd wanted to.  He wanted to share that with his little brother.  He stepped up in a lot of ways like that – not out of need – just because he wanted to.
He taught me how to shoot.  I remember the first time because one of his friends – a former Army tank driver – went with us.  The guy hands me a shotgun and I take aim and fire – and end up in the dirt.  No one had told me slugs kick harder. I’ll never forget the look on Todd’s face as they busted out laughing.   I had a bruise on my shoulder for weeks.

He took me to my first rock and roll concert – Hara Arena, where the Damn Yankees played.  I can still hear Ted Nugent screaming over his guitar – and I mean that literally because I still have the tinnitus to prove it.

When he was going through the police academy, of course I was his practice dummy for arrests and submission.  Until he pushed me too hard once and sprained both of my wrists at the same time.  “Don’t tell mom”, he said.  Same when he shot me in the leg with a BB gun at point blank range (by accident).  “Don’t tell mom”.  OK, but work on that trigger discipline.
I was always very proud of him for his service at Butler Township Police Department.  I went on several ride-alongs on the graveyard shift and saw what he had to deal with on a nightly basis.  It gave me good insight into why police and military have such dark humor.  They deal with a lot of the worst in society, so we don’t have to.
Hanging out with him meant spending a lot of time with his friends – ex- and current cops, Marine snipers turned undercover narcotics officers, Army vets  - you know, the best role models!
One time my senior year, I had a crazy ex-boyfriend stalking me for talking to ‘his girl’.  He somehow found my phone number.  To this day, I’m not sure how or why Todd decided to pick up the phone when he did, but whatever he said to the guy worked, because the kid never looked at me again.  Score one for Big Brother.
One of the last times I went trick-or-treating, my friend Mike and I got jumped.  They took my entire pillowcase full of candy.  When I came home empty-handed and shaken up pretty bad, he threw me in the car, and we drove to his friend’s house.  Without even hesitating, the guy dumped what remained of his stash into my bag.  Did I mention it was the same guy who handed me the slug shotgun about 5 years earlier?
He was 10 years older than me, so he often took on that fatherly protection, even when it drove me crazy sometimes.  As I grew up, I understood it more, and I am forever grateful for his love, even when it wasn’t expressed.

If Todd couldn’t get out in nature every so often, he’d go crazy.  He loved hunting, fishing, backpacking, Aside from what I knew about his hunting, I could tell when he moved to Hemlock and again to Angel Fire, he was truly in his element.  Roughing it was a way of life – relying on wits and know-how.  The way he talked about it, I knew he was ‘home’.
When I moved to Texas and he to New York, we didn’t get a chance to see each other as often as I wish we could have, but we kept up with each other in texts, memes, and DMs.  One of the last things he sent me on Instagram was a simple video and just said “I might not be the best big bro, but id take 5 rounds to the chest before I let something happen to you”.  Bravado or not, that was the sort of man and brother Todd Burkett was.  He would do whatever he could to protect his loved ones.  Shortly before he died, he posted his favorite poem, because we had been talking about Mom, and I jokingly commented that I knew that was his favorite poem and I was going to read it at his funeral.  He said “Thanks, you know me - I might be dead in a ditch somewhere but there will be a big pile of brass around me”.  There’s that bravado again.  But I know the sentiment was that he’d use his last breath to defend what he loved.  
But I must fulfill my promise, so here is Dylan Thomas’ “Do Not Go Gently Into That Good Night” :

Do not go gentle into that good night,
Old age should burn and rave at close of day;
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.

Though wise men at their end know dark is right,
Because their words had forked no lightning they
Do not go gentle into that good night.

Good men, the last wave by, crying how bright
Their frail deeds might have danced in a green bay,
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.

Wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight,
And learn, too late, they grieved it on its way,
Do not go gentle into that good night.

Grave men, near death, who see with blinding sight
Blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay,
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.

And you, my brother, there on the sad height,
Curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears, I pray.
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
